README.md, before:

# M5: Visual Recognition - Team 2
| Members | Contact | GitHub |
| :---         |   :---    |   :---    |
| Igor Ugarte Molinet | igorugarte.cvm@gmail.com | [igorugarteCVM](https://github.com/igorugarteCVM) | 
| Juan Antonio Rodríguez García | juanantonio.rodriguez@upf.edu  | [joanrod](https://github.com/joanrod) |
| Francesc Net Barnès | francescnet@gmail.com  | [cesc47](https://github.com/cesc47) |
| David Serrano Lozano | 99d.serrano@gmail.com | [davidserra9](https://github.com/davidserra9) |

---
## Week1
Image classification using Pytorch, available at M5/week1.

Slides for week 1: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FGRrmjkltlC7GpD8WeX_9TiXb5x-T6QKmyFojb2Qg8w/edit?usp=sharing)

To execute the program which trains and evaluates the model, run the following command:
```
$ python week1/train.py
```
## Week2
The main task for this week was to use the Faster RCNN [1] (Object Detection algorithm) and Mask RCNN [2] (Instance Segmentation algorithm) in the KITTI-MOTS [3] dataset using Detectron2 [4] to detect both pedestrians and cars.

![Object Detection](/week2/inference/0013.gif)

The model were pretrained on the Microsoft-COCO [5] dataset and finetunned on 8 sequences of the KITTI-MOTS dataset. All the reasoning and procedures followed can be seen in:

Slides for week 2: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ERkqOnMB56ElYuvYg9izsTqWn5aO28IjpjF5gZBFMKM/edit#slide=id.g11d85991502_0_90)

To fine-tune the models for the KITTI-MOTS dataset and evaluate the results run:
```
$ python week2/task_e.py
```

## Week3
The context of an image encapsulates rich information about how natural scenes and objects are related to each other. That is why, the task for this week was to explore how the Object Detection algorithms use context to detect some objects or even to improve some detections.

![PlaneAsBird](/week3/readmeimage.png)

The "Out-Of-Context" [6] dataset was used as well as custom images modified from the COCO dataset based on the "The elephant in the room paper" [7]. All the reasoning and procedures followed can be seen in:

Slides for week 3: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Hvv0NIu_j9Rd1Bp6VtYcSG42W5-3KcmsYLNb5G3_tno/edit?usp=sharing)

To run each section explained in the previos slides run:
```
$ python week3/task_{id_task}.py
```

The CVPR paper corresponding to all the tasks and experiments devoted to Object Detection and Instance Segmentation can be seen in: [Paper](https://www.overleaf.com/read/hcbxsbkrsmcb)
**NOTE: The new version of the paper contains further improvements to week 2 results. We apply new splits to obtain more balanced annotations, revaluate pre-trained models with COCO and perform fine-tuning with KITTI-MOTS.

## References
[1] Ren, Shaoqing, et al. "Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object detection with region proposal networks." Advances in neural information processing systems 28 (2015).

[2] He, Kaiming, et al. "Mask r-cnn." Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision. 2017.

[3] Voigtlaender, Paul, et al. "Mots: Multi-object tracking and segmentation." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2019.

[4]Yuxin Wu and Alexander Kirillov and Francisco Massa and Wan-Yen Lo and Ross Girshick, [Detectron2](https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2), 2019.

[5] Lin, Tsung-Yi, et al. "Microsoft coco: Common objects in context." European conference on computer vision. Springer, Cham, 2014.

[6] Choi, Myung Jin, Antonio Torralba, and Alan S. Willsky. "Context models and out-of-context objects." Pattern Recognition Letters 33.7 (2012): 853-862.

[7] Rosenfeld, Amir, Richard Zemel, and John K. Tsotsos. "The elephant in the room." arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.03305 (2018).

Commit message:

joan last push: readme, and many task refactors

README.md, after:

# M5: Visual Recognition - Team 2
| Members | Contact | GitHub |
| :---         |   :---    |   :---    |
| Igor Ugarte Molinet | igorugarte.cvm@gmail.com | [igorugarteCVM](https://github.com/igorugarteCVM) | 
| Juan Antonio Rodríguez García | juanantonio.rodriguez@upf.edu  | [joanrod](https://github.com/joanrod) |
| Francesc Net Barnès | francescnet@gmail.com  | [cesc47](https://github.com/cesc47) |
| David Serrano Lozano | 99d.serrano@gmail.com | [davidserra9](https://github.com/davidserra9) |

---
## Week1
Image classification using Pytorch, available at M5/week1.

Slides for week 1: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FGRrmjkltlC7GpD8WeX_9TiXb5x-T6QKmyFojb2Qg8w/edit?usp=sharing)

To execute the program which trains and evaluates the model, run the following command:
```
$ python week1/train.py
```
## Week2
The main task for this week was to use the Faster RCNN [1] (Object Detection algorithm) and Mask RCNN [2] (Instance Segmentation algorithm) in the KITTI-MOTS [3] dataset using Detectron2 [4] to detect both pedestrians and cars.

![Object Detection](/week2/inference/0013.gif)

The model were pretrained on the Microsoft-COCO [5] dataset and finetunned on 8 sequences of the KITTI-MOTS dataset. All the reasoning and procedures followed can be seen in:

Slides for week 2: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ERkqOnMB56ElYuvYg9izsTqWn5aO28IjpjF5gZBFMKM/edit#slide=id.g11d85991502_0_90)

To fine-tune the models for the KITTI-MOTS dataset and evaluate the results run:
```
$ python week2/task_e.py
```

## Week3
The context of an image encapsulates rich information about how natural scenes and objects are related to each other. That is why, the task for this week was to explore how the Object Detection algorithms use context to detect some objects or even to improve some detections.

![PlaneAsBird](/week3/readmeimage.png)

The "Out-Of-Context" [6] dataset was used as well as custom images modified from the COCO dataset based on the "The elephant in the room paper" [7]. All the reasoning and procedures followed can be seen in:

Slides for week 3: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Hvv0NIu_j9Rd1Bp6VtYcSG42W5-3KcmsYLNb5G3_tno/edit?usp=sharing)

To run each section explained in the previos slides run:
```
$ python week3/task_{id_task}.py
```

The CVPR paper corresponding to all the tasks and experiments devoted to Object Detection and Instance Segmentation can be seen in: [Paper](https://www.overleaf.com/read/hcbxsbkrsmcb)
**NOTE: The new version of the paper contains further improvements to week 2 results. We apply new splits to obtain more balanced annotations, revaluate pre-trained models with COCO and perform fine-tuning with KITTI-MOTS.

## Week4
This weeks tasks where devoted to explore the problem of metric learning in the context of Image Retrieval. We have used the MIT-Scene dataset, composed 
of images of 8 different types of places, to train a model that can be used to retrieve images of the same type.

We have explored many Resnet backbones as well as the CNN built in the project for week 1, we have tested how good was the retrieval of the images using pretrained weights on Imagenet and fine-tuning the models with MIT-Scene.
Furthermode, we have used Siamese and Triplet learning strategies to implicitly learn a set of features that are good for differentiating between similar and dissimilar images.


![PlaneAsBird](/week4/clusters.PNG)

Slides for week 4: [Slides](https://www.overleaf.com/read/sfdghsmprwym)

To run each section explained in the slidesm, we have created many files nedes as task_{id_task_{...}}.py, where {...} has some further information. These files are to be rune as follows:
```
$ python week4/task_{id_task_{...}}.py
```

Furthermore, we created two files to evaluate and plot results of the retrieval and metric learning models:
```
$ python week4/evaluation_metrics.py
$ python week4/plot_embedings.py
```
evaluation_metrics.py is used to evaluate the retrieval of models that return arbitrary sized embeddings, and plot_embedings.py is used to plot the embeddings of size 2 (FC 2 model).

The CVPR paper corresponding to all the tasks and experiments devoted to Object Detection and Instance Segmentation can be seen in: [Paper](https://www.overleaf.com/5374743577rshpmzsgynjj)



## References
[1] Ren, Shaoqing, et al. "Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object detection with region proposal networks." Advances in neural information processing systems 28 (2015).

[2] He, Kaiming, et al. "Mask r-cnn." Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision. 2017.

[3] Voigtlaender, Paul, et al. "Mots: Multi-object tracking and segmentation." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2019.

[4]Yuxin Wu and Alexander Kirillov and Francisco Massa and Wan-Yen Lo and Ross Girshick, [Detectron2](https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2), 2019.

[5] Lin, Tsung-Yi, et al. "Microsoft coco: Common objects in context." European conference on computer vision. Springer, Cham, 2014.

[6] Choi, Myung Jin, Antonio Torralba, and Alan S. Willsky. "Context models and out-of-context objects." Pattern Recognition Letters 33.7 (2012): 853-862.

[7] Rosenfeld, Amir, Richard Zemel, and John K. Tsotsos. "The elephant in the room." arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.03305 (2018).
